{"title":"Em","tag":"html/reference/elements/em","post":"\n\n{{Sidebar(\"html/reference/elements\")}}\n\nThe **`<em>`** [HTML](/blog/Web/HTML) element marks text that has stress emphasis. The `<em>` element can be nested, with each level of nesting indicating a greater degree of emphasis.\n\n{{InteractiveExample(\"HTML Demo: &lt;em&gt;\", \"tabbed-shorter\")}}\n\n```html interactive-example\n<p>Get out of bed <em>now</em>!</p>\n\n<p>We <em>had</em> to do something about it.</p>\n\n<p>This is <em>not</em> a drill!</p>\n```\n\n```css interactive-example\nem {\n  /* Add your styles here */\n}\n```\n\n## Attributes\n\nThis element only includes the [global attributes](/blog/Web/HTML/Reference/Global_attributes).\n\n## Usage notes\n\nThe `<em>` element is for words that have a stressed emphasis compared to surrounding text, which is often limited to a word or words of a sentence and affects the meaning of the sentence itself.\n\nTypically this element is displayed in italic type. However, it should not be used to apply italic styling; use the CSS {{cssxref(\"font-style\")}} property for that purpose. Use the {{HTMLElement(\"cite\")}} element to mark the title of a work (book, play, song, etc.). Use the {{HTMLElement(\"i\")}} element to mark text that is in an alternate tone or mood, which covers many common situations for italics such as scientific names or words in other languages. Use the {{HTMLElement(\"strong\")}} element to mark text that has greater importance than surrounding text.\n\n### \\<i> vs. \\<em>\n\nSome developers may be confused by how multiple elements seemingly produce similar visual results. `<em>` and `<i>` are a common example, since they both italicize text. What's the difference? Which should you use?\n\nBy default, the visual result is the same. However, the semantic meaning is different. The `<em>` element represents stress emphasis of its contents, while the `<i>` element represents text that is set off from the normal prose, such as a foreign word, fictional character thoughts, or when the text refers to the definition of a word instead of representing its semantic meaning. (The title of a work, such as the name of a book or movie, should use `<cite>`.)\n\nThis means the right one to use depends on the situation. Neither is for purely decorative purposes, that's what CSS styling is for.\n\nExamples for `<em>` could be:\n\n```html live-sample___em-example\n<p>Just <em>do</em> it already!</p>\n<p>We <em>had</em> to do something about it.</p>\n```\n\n{{EmbedLiveSample('em-example', \"\", 85)}}\n\nA person or software reading the text would pronounce the words in italics with an emphasis, using verbal stress.\n\nExamples for `<i>` could be:\n\n```html live-sample___i-example\n<p>The word <i>the</i> is an article.</p>\n<p>The <i>Queen Mary</i> sailed last night.</p>\n```\n\n{{EmbedLiveSample('i-example', \"\", 85)}}\n\nHere, there is no added emphasis or importance on the word \"Queen Mary\". It is merely indicated that the object in question is not a queen named Mary but a ship named \"Queen Mary\".\n\n## Examples\n\nIn this example, the `<em>` element is used to highlight an implicit or explicit contrast between two ingredient lists:\n\n```html\n<p>\n  Ice cream is made with milk, sweetener, and cream. Frozen custard, on the\n  other hand, is made of milk, cream, sweetener, and <em>egg yolks</em>.\n</p>\n```\n\n### Result\n\n{{EmbedLiveSample(\"Example\")}}\n\n## Technical summary\n\n<table class=\"properties\">\n  <tbody>\n    <tr>\n      <th scope=\"row\">\n        <a href=\"/blog/Web/HTML/Guides/Content_categories\"\n          >Content categories</a\n        >\n      </th>\n      <td>\n        <a href=\"/blog/Web/HTML/Guides/Content_categories#flow_content\"\n          >Flow content</a\n        >,\n        <a href=\"/blog/Web/HTML/Guides/Content_categories#phrasing_content\"\n          >phrasing content</a\n        >, palpable content.\n      </td>\n    </tr>\n    <tr>\n      <th scope=\"row\">Permitted content</th>\n      <td>\n        <a href=\"/blog/Web/HTML/Guides/Content_categories#phrasing_content\"\n          >Phrasing content</a\n        >.\n      </td>\n    </tr>\n    <tr>\n      <th scope=\"row\">Tag omission</th>\n      <td>None, both the starting and ending tag are mandatory.</td>\n    </tr>\n    <tr>\n      <th scope=\"row\">Permitted parents</th>\n      <td>\n        Any element that accepts\n        <a href=\"/blog/Web/HTML/Guides/Content_categories#phrasing_content\"\n          >phrasing content</a\n        >.\n      </td>\n    </tr>\n    <tr>\n      <th scope=\"row\">Implicit ARIA role</th>\n      <td>\n        <code\n          ><a href=\"/blog/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Reference/Roles/structural_roles#structural_roles_with_html_equivalents\">emphasis</a\n          ></code\n        >\n      </td>\n    </tr>\n    <tr>\n      <th scope=\"row\">Permitted ARIA roles</th>\n      <td>Any</td>\n    </tr>\n    <tr>\n      <th scope=\"row\">DOM interface</th>\n      <td>\n        {{domxref(\"HTMLElement\")}} Up to Gecko 1.9.2 (Firefox 4)\n        inclusive, Firefox implements the\n        {{domxref(\"HTMLSpanElement\")}} interface for this element.\n      </td>\n    </tr>\n  </tbody>\n</table>\n\n## Specifications\n\n{{Specifications}}\n\n## Browser compatibility\n\n{{Compat}}\n\n## See also\n\n- {{HTMLElement(\"i\")}}\n","slug":"cba1fd53dd4a4e519d8096c9cbf0338a","authors":"Admin Es Solution","draft":false,"datecreated":"2025-07-05T19:06:05.727Z","dateupdated":"2025-07-05T19:06:05.727Z","layout":"PostBanner"}